Active Directory (AD): AD is a database and set of services that connect users with the network resources they 
need to get their work done.                                             The database (or directory) contains 
critical information about your environment, for example, the database might list 100 user accounts with details 
like each person’s job title, phone number and password. It will also record their permissions.
This services control much of the activity in your IT environment. They make sure each person is who they claim 
to be (authentication), usually by checking the user ID and password they enter and allow them to access only the 
data they’re allowed to use (authorization). AD is like a tool for translating company resources into files and 
placing them in hierarchical folders to make it easier to see where they are. 

Domain Controller (DC): AD creates areas　called "domains" that represent relationships between resources. 
You can think of domains like large folders. Within this domain you can handle information about resources such 
as users, printers, PCs, shared data, departments and project teams. DC is a server that responds to verification 
requirements and evaluates clients in PC organizations. A domain is a continuous process of filtering clients and 
PCs collaborating into the same organization.Domain Manager keeps all information integrated and accessible. 
Domain regulator (DC) is the most powerful authority in Active Directory (AD).

Domain Tree (Forest): when it comes to large companies, they have subsidiaries and branch offices, and in some 
cases create separate domains. If you need the parent company's resources, it is inconvenient to create an account 
and access them again, so you can build a trust relationship between each domain and set a policy that allows 
access.  This is called a domain tree. IT is also possible to establish a trust relationship with an entirely 
different domain (domain tree).

Single Sign-on (SSO): In the "domain tree" and "forest", users can access resources in domains with which they 
have a trust relationship simply by logging in once to the domain to which they belong. Such a mechanism that 
allows access to various resources with a single login is called single sign-on (SSO).
However, forest refers to a trust relationship using AD within Windows Server, so the relationship that allows 
SSO in external cloud services and web services is called federation.
