Azure Monitoring Solution:

Organizations are going through an era of digital transformation and are embracing various cloud-native 
technologies to fuel innovation. Developers are critical to this transformation; they need to quickly bring 
innovation to the market to address customer needs. 
Applications developed on Azure deliver reliability, scalability, and the ability to handle huge amounts of 
workloads anywhere around the world. These cloud-native apps take advantage of containers, serverless technology, 
and micro-services-based architecture with Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Container Apps, and Azure Functions.
Such a growing application environment brings new challenges. Business acceleration is far more than just adopting 
cloud-native technologies, it’s also about agility and scale. We recognize how onerous it can be for developers 
to configure and monitor the infrastructure and distributed microservices. Once microservices are deployed, you 
need the ability to effectively detect and troubleshoot issues to ensure that you provide performance and 
reliability to your customers. Combating these challenges requires a reliable and scalable monitoring solution 
that seamlessly combines metrics, logs, and dashboards into a single experience.

Monitoring service with Azure new offerings—
	Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus (preview) and 
	Azure Managed Grafana. 

They complement existing Azure Monitor tools to help you monitor each layer of your full cloud-native stack on 
Kubernetes and quickly troubleshoot issues across microservices and infrastructure. Additionally, you can now set 
up collection for Prometheus metrics and container logs and view them in Grafana dashboards with a single click!
The new Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus (preview) gives you a fully managed cloud-native metrics 
solution to ingest, alert on, and query your Prometheus metrics, which provide visibility to the health and 
performance of your infrastructure and applications. Azure monitor container insights increases your visibility 
with a fully managed cloud-native logs solution for advanced troubleshooting by analyzing container stdout, 
stderr, and infrastructure logs. You can quickly identify and mitigate latency and reliability issues using 
distributed traces with Azure Monitor application insights with preview OpenTelemetry-based instrumentation, 
which is a fully managed application and performance monitoring (APM) solution. which gives you a fully managed 
service for full-stack troubleshooting dashboards.

