Azure security:
Security is a top priority in the cloud, and we know how important it is to have accurate and timely information 
about Azure security. One of the biggest reasons to use Azure for your applications and services is to take 
advantage of a wide variety of security tools and features. These tools and capabilities enable you to create 
secure solutions on the Azure platform. Microsoft Azure provides confidentiality, integrity, and availability of 
customer data while enabling transparent accountability.

  The focus here is on customer-facing controls that allow customization of applications and services to 
　　enhance security.
  For information on how Microsoft secures the Azure platform itself, see Azure Infrastructure Security.

Azure security features:
Responsibilities for those managing security for applications and services vary by cloud service model. There are 
capabilities available in the Azure platform that cover these areas of responsibility, with built-in functionality 
and partner solutions deployable into your Azure subscription.
Built-in features are grouped into six feature categories: 
1. Operations, 2. Applications, 3. Storage, 4. Networking, 5. Compute, 6. Identity

1.  Operation
This section provides additional information about features that are important to security operations and overview 
information about these features.

Microsoft Sentinel: Microsoft Sentinel is a scalable, cloud-native Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)
and Security Orchestration Automated Response (SOAR) solution. Microsoft Sentinel delivers advanced security 
analytics and threat intelligence across the enterprise, providing a single solution for attack detection, threat 
visibility, proactive hunting, and threat response.

Microsoft Defender for Cloud: Microsoft Defender for Cloud helps you prevent, detect and respond to threats with 
visibility and control over the security of your Azure resources. It provides integrated security monitoring and 
policy management across your Azure subscriptions, detects threats that might otherwise go unnoticed, and works 
with a broad ecosystem of security solutions. Also, can help with security operations by providing a single 
dashboard with alerts and recommendations for immediate action. 

Azure Resource Manager: Azure Resource Manager allows you to work with multiple resources in your solution as a 
group. All these resources in your solution can be deployed, updated, or deleted in one coordinated operation. Use 
an Azure Resource Manager template for deployment. This template can be used for different environments such as 
testing, staging, and production. Resource Manager provides security, auditing, and tagging features to help you 
manage your resources after deployment. It improves the security of solutions deployed in Azure. This reduces the 
risk of security configuration errors that can occur during manual deployment.

Application Insights: Application Insights is an extensible application performance management (APM) service for 
web developers. You can monitor live web applications and automatically detect performance issues with Application
Insights. Application Insights includes powerful analytics tools that help you diagnose problems and understand 
what your users are doing with your app. Constantly monitor your running applications, both during testing and 
after publishing or deploying.

Azure Monitor: Azure Monitor visualizes, queries, routes, alerts, auto scales, and automates data from both Azure 
subscriptions (activity logs) and individual Azure resources (resource logs). You can use Azure Monitor to create 
notifications for security-related events generated in Azure logs.
Azure Monitor logs: Azure Monitor Logs – An IT management solution that works 
not only for Azure resources, but also for on-premises and third-party cloud infrastructures such as AWS. 
You can route Azure Monitor data directly to Azure Monitor Logs, so you can see metrics and logs across your 
environment in one place.

Azure Advisor: Azure Advisor is a personalized cloud consultant that helps you optimize your Azure deployments. 
Azure Advisor analyzes resource configuration and usage telemetry. It then looks for opportunities to reduce 
overall Azure usage while proposing solutions that help improve performance, security, and resource reliability. 
Also makes recommendations to improve the overall security. 

2.  Application
This section provides additional information about important features of Application Security and overview 
information about these features.

Penetration test: We do not perform penetration testing of your applications on your behalf, but we understand that
you may feel the need to perform testing on your own applications. This is a good thing because when you harden 
your applications, you can make the entire Azure ecosystem more secure. Although customers must still follow the 
Microsoft Cloud Penetration Testing Conduct Rules.

Web application firewall: Web Application Firewall (WAF) helps protect your web applications from common web-based 
attacks such as SQL injection, cross-site scripting attacks, and session hijacking. This firewall comes
preconfigured with protection from threats identified as the top 10 most common vulnerabilities by the Open Web 
Application Security Project (OWASP).

Authentication and authorization in Azure App Service: App Service Authentication and Authorization is a feature 
that provides a way for applications to sign in users without requiring code changes on the backend of the app. 
This makes it easier to secure your application and allows for per-user data.

Multi-tiered security architecture: Developers can layer their security architecture and provide different levels 
of network access for different tiers of applications. In general, it is considered desirable to hide the API 
backend from normal internet access and only allow his web app upstream to call the API. You can restrict public 
access to your API applications by using Network Security Groups (NSGs) for the Azure Virtual Network subnet that 
contains your App Service Environment.

Web server diagnostics and application diagnostics: App Service Web Apps can diagnose log information for both web 
servers and web applications. These are logically divided into web server diagnostics and application diagnostics. 
Web servers have made two major advances in diagnosing and troubleshooting sites and applications.

3.  Storage
This section provides additional information about important Azure Storage security features and overview 
information about these features.

Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC): You can secure your storage account with Azure role-based access 
control (Azure RBAC). Restricting access based on the need-to-know and least-privilege security principles is 
essential for organizations that enforce security policies on data access. You can assign permissions to users 
using Azure built-in roles (such as Storage Account Contributor). Access to storage keys for storage accounts 
using the Azure Resource Manager model can be controlled with Azur RBAC.

Shared access signature: A shared access signature (SAS) enables delegated access to resources within a storage 
account. SAS allows you to grant clients limited permissions to objects in your storage account for a specified 
duration and permission set. You don't need to share your account access key when granting this limited permission.

Encryption in transit: Encryption in transit is a mechanism for protecting data as it is transferred across 
networks. Azure Storage allows you to secure your data using:
  Transport-level encryption, such as HTTPS when transferring data in and out of Azure Storage.
  Wire encryption (such as SMB 3.0 encryption for Azure file shares).
  Client-side encryption (encrypts data before transferring it to storage and decrypts data after transferring 
    data from storage).

Encryption at rest: For many organizations, encryption of data at rest is critical to ensuring data privacy, 
compliance, and data sovereignty. Azure Storage has three features that provide encryption of data “at rest”.
  Storage Service Encryption allows you to request that storage services automatically encrypt data when it 
    writes to Azure Storage.
  Client-side encryption also provides encryption at rest.
  With Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs and Azure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs, you can encrypt OS and data
    disks used by IaaS virtual machines.

Storage Analytics: Azure Storage Analytics provides logged and metric data for your storage account. You can use 
this data to trace requests, analyze usage trends, and diagnose problems with your storage account. Storage 
Analytics logs detailed info.  about successful and failed requests to storage services. You can use this 
information to monitor individual requests and diagnose problems with your storage services. 
The following types of authenticated requests are logged:
  successful request
  Failed requests (various errors related to timeouts, bandwidth throttling, network, authorization, etc.)
  Requests with Shared Access Signatures (SAS), including failed and successful requests
  Data analysis request

Enabling browser-based clients with CORS: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that allows domains 
to access each other's resources. User agents send additional headers to verify that JavaScript code loaded from 
one domain can be used to access resources located on another domain. The latter domain then responds with 
additional headers that allow or deny the original domain access to her resources.

4.  Network
This section provides additional information about important features of Azure Network Security and overview 
information about these features.

Network layer control: Network access control, the ability to restrict connections to and from specific devices or 
subnets, is central to network security. Network access control aims to ensure that only authorized users and 
devices can access virtual machines and services.

Network security group:  A Network Security Group (NSG) is a basic stateful packet filtering firewall that controls
access based on 5-tuples. NSG does not provide application layer inspection nor authenticated access control. You 
can use NSGs to control traffic that travels between subnets within your Azure Virtual Network and between your 
Azure Virtual Network and the internet.

Azure Firewall: Azure Firewall is a cloud-native, intelligent network firewall security service that provides 
threat protection for cloud workloads running in Azure. A fully stateful firewall-as-a-service with built-in high 
availability and unlimited cloud scalability. It provides both east-west and north-south traffic inspection.

Route control and forced tunneling: The ability to control routing behavior in Azure Virtual Networks is a key 
feature of network security and access control.
For example, if you want all traffic to and from your Azure Virtual Network to go through the virtual security 
appliance, you need to be able to control and customize the routing behavior. This is achieved by configuring 
user-defined routes in Azure. User-defined routes allow you to customize the incoming and outgoing paths for 
traffic traveling between individual virtual machines or subnets, ensuring the most secure routes. Forced tunneling
is a mechanism that prevents services from being authorized to initiate connections with devices on the Internet.
Note that this is different from accepting incoming connections and responding to them.

Virtual network security appliance: Network security groups, user-defined routes, and forced tunneling can provide 
security at the network and transport layer levels of the OSI model but enabling security at higher levels of the 
stack can be time consuming. there is. Take advantage of these enhanced network security capabilities with Azure 
partner network security appliance solutions.

Azure Virtual Network: An Azure Virtual Network (VNet) represents your own network in the cloud. A logically 
isolated Azure network fabric dedicated to subscriptions. This network gives you complete control over IP address 
blocks, DNS settings, security policies, and route tables. You can divide your VNet into subnets to place your 
Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) or cloud services (PaaS role instances).
You can also connect your virtual network to your on-premises network using one of Azure's connectivity options. 
For example, I have the following scenario:
  Connectivity from individual workstations to an Azure Virtual Network
  VPN connection from on-premises network to Azure Virtual Network
  Connectivity through a dedicated WAN link from your on-premises network to your Azure Virtual Network
  Connectivity between Azure Virtual Networks

Azure Private Link: Azure Private Link provides private access to Azure PaaS services (Azure Storage, SQL Database,
etc.) and customer-owned/partner services hosted in Azure over private endpoints in virtual networks. Preferences 
and consumption with Azure Private Link are consistent across Azure PaaS, customer-owned, and shared partner 
services. Traffic from virtual networks to Azure services always remains on the Microsoft Azure backbone network.

VPN Gateway: If you want to send network traffic between your Azure Virtual Network and you’re on-premises site, 
you need to create a VPN gateway for your Azure Virtual Network. A VPN gateway is a type of virtual network gateway
that sends encrypted traffic over public connections. A VPN gateway also allows you to send traffic between Azure 
Virtual Networks over the Azure Network Fabric.

ExpressRoute: Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute is a dedicated WAN link. It allows you to extend your on-premises 
network to the Microsoft cloud with a dedicated private connection provided by your connectivity provider.
 ExpressRoute connections do not traverse the public internet and are therefore considered more secure than 
VPN-based solutions. This makes ExpressRoute connections more secure, reliable, lower latency, and faster than 
typical connections over the Internet.

Application Gateway: Microsoft Azure Application Gateway provides an Application Delivery Controller (ADC) as a 
service, making various Layer 7 load balancing capabilities available to your applications.
This allows you to optimize web farm productivity by offloading CPU-intensive TLS termination to Application 
Gateway. It provides failover and performance routing of HTTP requests between different servers, whether in the 
cloud or on-premises.Application Gateway provides many Applications Delivery Controller(ADC) features such as HTTP 
load balancing, cookie-based session affinity,TLS offloading,custom health probes, multi-site support,and more. 

Web application firewall: Web Application Firewall (WAF) is a feature of Azure Application Gateway that uses 
Application Gateway against standard Application Delivery Control (ADC) functionality to protect web applications. 
A web application firewall accomplishes this by providing protection against most of the OWASP top 10 common web 
vulnerabilities. 
  Protection against SQL injection
  Protection against common web attacks (command injection, HTTP request smuggling, HTTP response splitting,
   remote file inclusion attacks, etc.)
  Protection against HTTP protocol violations
  Protection against HTTP protocol anomalies (such as missing host user-agent and authorization headers)
  Preventing bots, crawlers and scanners
  Detect common application misconfigurations (Apache, IIS, etc.)
An existing application gateway can be easily converted to an application gateway with a web application firewall.

Traffic manager: Microsoft Azure Traffic Manager allows you to control the distribution of user traffic to service 
endpoints in different data centers. Service endpoints supported by Traffic Manager include Azure VMs, web 
applications, and cloud services. You can also use Traffic Manager with external endpoints outside of Azure. 
Traffic Manager uses Domain Name System (DNS) to direct client requests to the best endpoint based on traffic 
routing method and endpoint health.Traffic Manager offers different traffic routing methods for different 
application needs, endpoint health, monitoring, and automatic failover. Traffic Manager responds to failures, 
such as failure of an entire Azure region.

Azure Load Balancer: Azure Load Balancer provides your applications with high availability and excellent network 
performance. Azure Load Balancer is a layer 4 (TCP, UDP) load balancer that distributes incoming traffic among 
healthy instances of services defined in a load balanced set. Azure Load Balancer can be configured as follows:
  Load balance incoming internet traffic to virtual machines. This configuration is called public load balancing.
  Load balance traffic between virtual machines in virtual networks, between virtual machines in cloud services,
    and between on-premises computers and virtual machines in cross-premises virtual networks. This configuration 
    is called internal load balancing.
  Direct external traffic to a specific virtual machine.


Internal DNS: You can manage the list of DNS servers used by your VNet in the management portal or in your network 
configuration file. You can add up to 12 DNS servers per VNet. When specifying DNS servers, it is important to 
ensure that the DNS servers are listed in the order appropriate for your environment. The DNS server list does not
support round robin. They are used in the order you specify. If the DNS server at the top of the list is reachable,
it will be used regardless of whether the DNS server is working properly. To change the order of the DNS servers 
for your virtual network, remove them from the list and add them back in the desired order. DNS supports 
availability among her three pillars of security, "CIA" (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability).

Azure DNS: Domain Name System (DNS) is responsible for translating (or resolving) the name of a website or service 
to its IP address. Azure DNS is a DNS domain hosting service that provides name resolution using the Microsoft 
Azure infrastructure. By hosting your domain in Azure, you can manage your DNS records using the same credentials,
APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services. DNS supports availability among his three pillars of 
security, "CIA" (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability).

Azure Monitor log NSGs: You can enable the following diagnostic log categories for NSGs:
  Events: Contains entries about NSG rules applied to VMs and instance roles based on MAC address. The state of 
    these rules is collected every 60 seconds.
  Rule counters: Contains entries about the number of times each NSG rule was applied to deny or allow traffic.

Microsoft Defender for Cloud: Microsoft Defender for Cloud continuously analyzes the security state of your Azure 
resources against network security best practices. When Defender for Cloud identifies potential security 
vulnerabilities, it makes recommendations that guide you through the process of configuring the necessary controls 
to harden and protect your resources.

5.  Compute
This section provides additional information about important features in this area and overview information about 
these features.

Azure Confidential Computing: Azure Confidential Computing is the final missing piece in the data protection 
puzzle. This ensures that your data is always encrypted. Whether it's being stored, being moved over a network, or 
being loaded into memory and being used. Additionally, by enabling remote attestation, you can cryptographically 
verify that provisioned VMs have been securely started and configured correctly before unlocking the data.
For platform as a service, we offer multiple container-based options, including integration with Azure Kubernetes 
Service (AKS).

Antimalware and antivirus software: Azure IaaS offers anti-malware software from security vendors such as 
Microsoft, Symantec, Trend Micro, McAfee, and Kaspersky. This helps protect your virtual machines from threats 
such as malicious files and adware. Microsoft Antimalware for Azure Cloud Services and Azure Virtual Machines is a 
protection that helps identify and remove viruses, spyware, and other malicious software. Microsoft Antimalware 
provides configurable alerts when known malicious or unwanted software attempts to automatically install or run on
your Azure systems. Microsoft Antimalware can also be deployed using Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

Hardware security module: Encryption and authentication do not improve security unless the keys themselves are 
protected. Storing valuable secrets and keys in Azure Key Vault makes it simple to manage and secure them. Key 
Vault offers an optional hardware security module (HSM) for key storage. HSM complies with the FIPS 140-2 Level 2 
standard. In addition to SQL Server encryption keys for backups or Transparent Data Encryption, you can store all 
your application keys and secrets in Key Vault. Permissions and access to these protected items are managed through
Azure Active Directory.

Virtual machine backup: Azure Backup is a solution that allows you to protect your application data with zero 
capital investment and minimal operational costs. Application errors can corrupt data, and human errors can 
introduce bugs in your application and lead to security problems. Azure Backup protects virtual machines running 
Windows and Linux.

Azure Site Recovery: A key part of an organization's business continuity/disaster recovery (BCDR) strategy is 
figuring out how to keep enterprise workloads and apps running during planned and unplanned outages. Azure Site 
Recovery helps coordinate replication, failover, and recovery of workloads and apps. This ensures that your 
workloads and apps are available from your secondary location even if your primary location goes down.

SQL VM TDEs: Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Column Level Encryption (CLE) are SQL Server encryption 
features. These forms of encryption require the management and storage of cryptographic keys used for encryption.
The SQL Server Connector allows SQL Server to use keys located in Azure Key Vault.

VM disk encryption: Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs and Azure Disk Encryption for Windows VMs help encrypt IaaS
virtual machine disks. This feature uses the industry standard BitLocker feature in Windows and his DM-Crypt 
feature in Linux to encrypt the OS and data disk volumes. The solution is integrated with Azure Key Vault, and disk
 encryption keys and secrets can be controlled and managed through Key Vault subscriptions. The solution also 
encrypts all data on virtual machine disks at rest in Azure Storage.

Virtual network: Virtual machines require network connectivity. To meet that requirement, Azure requires virtual 
machines to connect to an Azure Virtual Network. An Azure Virtual Network is a logical construct built on top of 
the physical Azure network fabric. Each logical Azure Virtual Network is isolated from all other Azure Virtual 
Networks. Using this isolation prevents other Microsoft Azure users from accessing network traffic within your 
deployment.

Hotfix: Patches not only provide the foundation for finding and fixing potential issues, but they also reduce the 
number of software updates that need to be deployed internally and improve the ability to monitor compliance to 
reduce software updates. Simplify management processes.

Security policy management and reporting: Defender for Cloud is a service that helps you avoid, detect and respond 
to threats, giving you greater visibility and control over the security of your Azure resources. It provides 
integrated security monitoring and policy management across your Azure subscriptions, detects threats that might 
otherwise go unnoticed, and works with a broad ecosystem of security solutions.


6.  Identity 
Securing systems, applications, and data starts with identity-based access control. Identity and access management 
capabilities built into Microsoft business products and services keep your organization and personal information 
safe from unauthorized access while keeping it available to legitimate users wherever and whenever they need it.

Secure identity: Microsoft uses multiple security methods and technologies in our products and services to manage 
identity and access.
  Multi-factor authentication requires using multiple methods to access your on-premises environment in the 
    cloud. A wide range of easy verification options provide strong authentication while meeting user demands with 
    a simple sign-in process.
  Microsoft Authenticator is an intuitive multi-factor authentication feature that works with both Microsoft 
    Azure Active Directory and Microsoft accounts, supporting wearable and fingerprint-based authorization.
  Password policy enforcement enhances the security of traditional passwords by enforcing length and complexity 
    requirements, periodic changes, and locking accounts after failed authentication attempts.
  Enable authentication via Azure Active Directory with token-based authentication.
  Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) allows granting access based on roles assigned to users. This 
    makes it easy to grant users only the access they need to perform their job duties. Azure RBAC can be 
　　customized according to your organization's business model and risk tolerance.
  Identity management (hybrid identity) integration allows you to create a single user identity for 
　　authentication and authorization to all resources and maintain user access control in internal data centers 
　　and cloud platforms.

Secure apps and data: Azure AD are a comprehensive cloud solution for identity and access management. It secures 
access to application data on-site and in the cloud and simplifies user and group management. It combines core 
directory services, advanced identity governance, security, and access management to applications, allow developers
to easily incorporate policy-based her identity management into their applications.
Enhance your Azure Active Directory by adding paid features with Azure Active Directory Basic, Premium P1, and 
Premium P2 editions.
　Cloud App Discovery is a premium feature of Azure Active Directory that allows you to identify cloud 
　　applications used by your organization's employees.
　Azure Active Directory Identity Protection is a security service that uses the anomaly detection capabilities 
　　of Azure Active Directory to provide risk detection and a unified view into potential vulnerabilities that can 
　　affect your organization's identities.
　Azure Active Directory Domain Services allows you to join Azure virtual machines to domains without deploying 
　　domain controllers. A user can sign into these virtual machines using his company Active Directory credentials
　　and seamlessly access various resources.
　Azure Active Directory B2C is a highly available global identity management service for consumer applications 
　　that can scale to hundreds of millions of identities and integrate across mobile and web platforms. Customers 
　　can sign into all apps with customizable experiences using their existing social media accounts or create new 
　　standalone credentials.
　Azure Active Directory B2B collaboration is a secure partner integration solution that supports inter-company 
　　relationships by giving partners selective access to company applications and data using self-managed 
　　identities.
　Azure Active Directory Join allows you to extend your cloud capabilities to Windows 10 devices and manage them 
　　centrally. Simplify access to apps and resources by enabling users to connect to your company's or 
　　organizations cloud through Azure Active Directory.
　Azure Active Directory Application Proxy provides SSO and secure remote access to web applications hosted 
　　on-premises.