Migrate from On Premise AD to Azure Active Directory?
Azure AD is not designed to be the cloud version of AD. It is not a domain controller or a directory in the cloud 
that will provide the exact same capabilities with AD in a different way. That’s why there is no actual 
“migration” path from AD to Azure AD. You can synchronize your on-premises (AD or other) to Azure AD but not 
migrate your computer accounts, group policies, OU etc. 
Azure AD is an identity and access management solution for hybrid or cloud-only implementations. It can extend 
the reach of your on-premises identities to any SaaS application hosted in any cloud. It can provide secure remote 
access, identity management, cloud app discovery, Multi-Factor Authentication, protection of your identities in the 
cloud, reporting of Sign-ins from possibly infected devices, leaked credentials report, user behavioral analysis 
are a few additional things that we couldn’t even imagine with the traditional AD on-premises.

Three Ways to Migrate On-Premises AD to the Cloud 
Find out which cloud migration pattern works best for your company.

Pattern 1: I want to manage the same domain as in-house environment on Azure.

Configuration:
Build Windows Server AD and Azure AD Connect on Azure
Sync AD ID and password information with Azure AD through AAD Connect

Advantages:
Implement existing AD management directly on Azure. It is possible to continue the existing operation policy
Since the authentication process is completed in Azure, wasteful communication charges can be suppressed and 
  available without

You can manage the domain of the built virtual machine with AD, and you can use the customizations, functions, 
and authentication methods used in the internal environment as they are on Azure. Accounts can be synchronized 
with Azure AD via Azure AD Connect, allowing users to log in to Microsoft 365 or cloud services with their 
existing accounts, reducing the time and cost of managing multiple accounts. 

Pattern 2: I want to manage Azure using the existing in-house Active Directory.

Configuration:
Use existing ADDS configured on-premises
Sync ID information of ADDS with Azure AD via Azure AD Connect

Advantages:
Existing Active Directory can be used as is
Azure AD can be used while minimizing changes to the existing environment

Azure AD Connect allows customers to synchronize their internal accounts with Azure AD, allowing them to access 
both internal and cloud services with a single account. Accounts are automatically synchronized, so there is no 
operational burden. It can be used as an integrated authentication infrastructure that can be used for various 
services on the Internet as well as within the company.


Pattern 3: I want to manage domains only with Azure functions.

Configuration:
Use ADDS PaaS service Azure AD DS provided on Azure

Advantages:
Since Azure provides domain management functions, service quality is guaranteed.
Because it is not affected by hardware upgrades on Azure, there is no need to consider replacement.

With Azure, you can use the basic features of AD such as joining a domain called Azure AD DS, LDAP bind, NTLM and 
Kerberos authentication, and group policy. Since it is provided as a service by Azure, it is no longer necessary 
to build an AD or apply modification programs, which reduces operational considerations and work costs.



Updated