Basic and enhanced security features in Microsoft Defender for Cloud:
Defender for Cloud offers a variety of enhanced security features that help protect your organization from threats 
and attacks.

Basic security features (free) - When you open Defender for Cloud in the Azure portal for the first time or enable
it using the API, Defender for Cloud is enabled for free on all Azure subscriptions. By default, Defender for Cloud
provides a secure score, security policies and basic recommendations, and a network security assessment to help 
protect your Azure resources. If you want to try the enhanced security features, enable enhanced security features.
First 30 days are free. At the end of the 30 days, if you choose to continue using this service, we will 
automatically start charging you for your usage.

Enhanced security features (paid) - With enhanced security features enabled, 
Defender for Cloud provides integrated security management and threat protection across your hybrid cloud 
workloads, including

  Microsoft Defender for Endpoint - Microsoft Defender for servers includes Microsoft Defender for Endpoint for 
comprehensive endpoint detection and response (EDR). For the benefits of using Microsoft Defender for Endpoint 
with Defender for Cloud, see Use Defender for Cloud's integrated EDR solution.

  Vulnerability assessment for virtual machines, container registries, and SQL resources - Easily enable 
vulnerability assessment solutions to detect, manage, and resolve vulnerabilities. View findings, investigate, 
and remediate directly from within Defender for Cloud.

  Multi-cloud security - You can connect your Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) accounts 
to protect resources and workloads on those platforms within the security features of Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

  Hybrid Security - See the security of all your on-premises and cloud workloads in one unified view. Enforce 
security policies and continuously assess the security of your hybrid cloud workloads to ensure compliance with 
security standards. Collect, search, and analyze security data from various sources such as firewalls and other 
partner solutions.

  Threat Prevention Alerts - Use advanced behavioral analytics and the Microsoft Intelligent Security Graph to 
respond to increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks. Built-in behavioral analytics and machine learning can identify
attacks and zero-day attacks. Monitor networks, machines, data stores (SQL servers hosted inside and outside of 
Azure, Azure SQL databases, Azure SQL Managed Instance, Azure Storage), and cloud services for incoming attacks 
and post-breach activity. increase. Streamline investigations with interactive tools and contextual threat 
intelligence.

  Tracks adherence to various standards - Defender for Cloud continuously assesses your hybrid cloud environment 
and analyzes risk factors according to Microsoft Cloud Security Benchmark controls and best practices. With 
enhanced security features enabled, you can broadly apply other industry standards, regulatory standards, and 
benchmarks according to your organization's needs. You can add standards and track compliance from the regulatory 
compliance dashboard.

  Access and Application Control - Block malware and other unwanted applications by applying machine learning 
recommendations to build allow lists and blocklists tailored to specific workloads. Reduce your network attack 
surface with just-in-time, controlled access to management ports on Azure VMs. Access and application controls 
greatly reduce exposure to brute force and other network attacks.

  Container security features - Vulnerability management and real-time threat prevention is available in 
containerized environments. Pricing is based on the number of unique container images pushed to your connected 
registry. Once an image is scanned once, it will not be charged again unless it is changed and pushed again.

  Extensive threat protection for Azure-connected resources - Cloud-native threat protection for Azure services 
common to all resources (Azure Resource Manager, Azure DNS, Azure Network Layer, Azure Key Vault). Defender for 
Cloud provides unique visibility into the Azure Management and Azure DNS layers, allowing you to protect cloud 
resources connected to these layers.

  Manage Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) - CSPM provides users with the ability to remediate security 
issues and review their security posture through the tools provided. This includes the following tools
	  Security governance and regulatory compliance
	  cloud security graph
	  Attack path analysis
	  Agentless scanning of machines
