Sources of monitoring data for Azure Monitor:
Azure Monitor is based on a common monitoring data platform that includes,
 Metrics
 Logs
 Traces
 Changes

This platform allows data from multiple resources to be analyzed together using a common set of tools in Azure 
Monitor. Monitoring data may also be sent to other locations to support certain scenarios, and some resources may 
write to other locations before they can be collected into Logs or Metrics.
It describes common sources of monitoring data collected by Azure Monitor in addition to the monitoring data 
created by Azure resources. Links are provided to detailed information on configuration required to collect this 
data to different locations.Some of these data sources use the new data ingestion pipeline in Azure Monitor.

There are multiple sources of monitoring data are available. Some of them are given below:

 Application tiers: Sources of monitoring data from Azure applications can be organized into tiers, the highest 
   tiers being your application itself and the lower tiers being components of Azure platform.

 Azure tenant: Telemetry related to your Azure tenant is collected from tenant-wide services such as Azure AD.

 Azure subscription: Telemetry related to the health and operation of your Azure subscription.

 Azure resources: Metrics and resource logs provide information about the internal operation of Azure resources.
   These are available for most Azure services, and monitoring solutions and insights collect additional data for 
   services.

 Operating system (guest): Compute resources in Azure, in other clouds, and on-premises have a guest operating 
   system to monitor. With the installation of an agent, you can gather telemetry from the guest into Azure 
   Monitor to analyze it with the same monitoring tools as the Azure services themselves.

 Application Code: Detailed application monitoring in Azure Monitor is done with Application Insights, which 
   collects data from applications running on various platforms. The application can be running in Azure, another 
   cloud, or on-premises.

 Custom sources: In addition to the standard tiers of an application, you may need to monitor other resources 
   that have telemetry that can't be collected with the other data sources. For these resources, write this data 
   to either Metrics or Logs using an Azure Monitor API.
